# shiny_fluorcam



This shiny application is designed to analyse Fv/Fm mesured with a fluorcam using the data from the .TXT files generated by the fluorcam software.
The user interface allows using the script without any R knowledge.

1. ## Installation

  There are 2 ways to install the shiny_fluorcam app

  ### 1.1 Run Locally

The easiest way to use a shiny app is to download the app locally in a `shiny_fluorcam` folder. 
Open the app in R-studio and press the `Run App` button up right of the script panel.

This of course require that the user has R and R-studio installed and that both are up to date.

  ### 1.2 Using a Shiny Server https://posit.co/download/shiny-server/

More details here : https://www.linode.com/docs/guides/how-to-deploy-rshiny-server-on-ubuntu-and-debian/


2. ## Use

  File from fluorcam are .TXT , data are in column. 
  To use the shiny app your file name have to respect this pattern : VAR1_VAR2_VAR3.TXT. VAR1, VAR2, VAR3 being any informations usefull 
  to analyse your data, for exemple Day of the mesure, Plant ID, replicate, plant Lines... 

The shiny_fluorcam app has a side panel to help user
First, the user is prompted to select the directory where the files to analyse are. The `directory selection` button allows 
navigating the tree structure of the computer. Click the back arrow to go deeper and deeper to the files of interest. 
When reached, select the directory by clicking the `Select` button. In the main panel the app show the files in the folder. 
By default it shows 5 files but you can see all the files by using the 'Show Files` button

Then the user has to select a pattern to catch the file of interrest. It is set to .TXT by default and can be changed. 
Notice that if you use the .TXT as a pattern, no other file with this extension should be in the folder.

Now the user has to set the variables for the analysis. Name for Areas and for variables VAR1, VAR2, VAR3. 
All have a default value that can be changed by writing into the box

Press the `Load data` button. In the main panel you'll see the head of a data frame with your data and result of Fv/Fm computation (Fv_Fm).
See the all data frame using `Show/Hide Full Table` button.

In the second part of the side panel you can set parameters for the analysis of the data and the plot.
- Display order for the VAR2
- Display order for the VAR1

- Color for your graph. Default value are set but can be changed. Clicking on the color oppen acolor selector to change the colors.

- Select the numeric value to analyse

Press the `Start analysis`button to run 



